---
id: 72441673-b96c-4b9f-9abc-9424e65e89bf
published: false
blueprint: article
title: 'i learnt design. (kinda?)'
author: 59b91ae0-a15e-42d3-ae08-b3488969c8dd
updated_by: 59b91ae0-a15e-42d3-ae08-b3488969c8dd
updated_at: 1719182484
---
Well... I learnt how to poorly rip off Jack McDade at least.
So should you:
[https://radicaldesigncourse.com](https://radicaldesigncourse.com)

## Prelude

So, last iteration of this site I dropped this banger of a post ([i _really_ need to learn design](/articles/i-really-need-to-learn-design)) which lamented the fact that I didn't have a competent designing bone in my body - and went over how all I wanted was a decent personal website.

Some time after that Jack McDade released his Radical Design Course, and **_boy_** after that intro video - I was hooked. I felt like this was exactly what I needed, something that could help me change the way I think about design, rather than a tutorial for some design software (which is all I'd ever looked at before). I'm paraphrasing here, but one of the most important things I learnt from the course was that you don't need a hard and fast set of requirements and a rigid process to design successfully - you need to kinda be "loosey goosey" with it, have **fun** with it, and learn to _enjoy_&nbsp; it.

Anyway, I'm not even done with the course (yet) - I've watched less than half the content so far. BUT even that has empowered me to create this site, which I know isn't some groundbreaking piece of design work, but is infinitely better than anything I've ever created before.

Now I do want to note that by trade I'm a backend developer, I'm not (by any stretch of the imagination) a frontend guy - so, the implementation may be a bit off, but I'm happy with it and that's what matters.

That said, I will be incrementally improving and updating the site as I pick up new tips and tricks, and just iterating on what I've got here already, until I think I've got something truly great (by my standards).

## Inspiration

### Colours & the stripes

### Font(s)

### The "archive"

### Article view

It's just tailwind typography plugin with a couple tweaks. I was inspired by not having to style entry content myself.

## Statamic 😍

Not only did I (kinda) rip off Jack McDade's designs - by using Statamic I had him do most of the work too!
For real though, if you're making a custom blog - why aren't you using Statamic? There's absolutely no reason not to, literally cannot think of one.

## What's next

A breif summary:
- Understand & implement Bard
	- The content layout on here is still boring! and I **_know_**&nbsp; Bard can change that!
- Play with more colours
	- It has been pointed out to me that this site kinda looks like the German flag


<small>Times I said "Jack McDade" in this article (excluding just now): 3</small>