---
id: e3303cc5-1cc1-4231-9475-6df343af56a4
blueprint: text
title: 'Contacts and Calendar'
tags:
  - rambling
  - longformish
  - todotidyup
updated_by: d96be693-b8e0-4800-8b51-3392c1c850ac
updated_at: 1766920815
---
The search for the perfect Contacts/Calendar system is arduous. All I want is:

- Contacts with multiple important dates (beyond birthdays and anniversaries)
- Those dates to show in the calendar
- Not to use Google Contacts and Calendar

<!--more-->

Now Google Contacts (the application) allows you to add as many dates (perhaps a limit tbh, I've not checked but w/e) as you like to a Contact and give each one a custom label.
Perfect! Exactly what I wanted/want! Google Calendar then syncs with those Contacts and whacks an event each year for all of their dates. Perfection! This is bliss! This is exactly what I want! So gorgeous! Πολύ ωραίο! 

The problem is, as far as I can tell is that custom dates per Contact is not part of the vCard spec (or CardDAV (or whatever! I've not learnt it all yet. I think CardDAV is the sync protocol and vCards are the object specification)) and what Google Calendar allows is, I think (based on some Reddit thread I now cannot find) some type of defined extension. 
So other providers, especially open source ones just give you the exact spec. I'll use Mailbox.org here as my example, their frontend does not support custom date fields for Contacts (boo 😭) but since it's all CardDAV'd up I can use the Google Contacts app to add these fields to the Contacts, and that data is synced it just never gets shown in the Mailbox suite UI. 
Also Mailbox's Calendar is great and will show Contact birthdays, but won't show their custom dates 😭 or even their anniversaries, which their Contacts support!
It's infuriating I tell you! I want these dates assigned to their relevant people, and want them to show up in my Calendar! Why is this so hard??? I'm going to fucking cryyyyyy!
Google Calendar won't generate dates for Contacts in the Contacts app that aren't from your Google account (really, it doesn't go from the Contacts app at all, it goes from your Google Account which does make sense).

**ANYWAY** - right now here's where I'm at:

- Mailbox.org CardDAV and CalDAV servers for Contacts and Calendar
- DAVx5
- Google Contacts app with no Google Account so I can add the dates to contacts
    - Unhappy about this but haven't found another Contacts app that supports custom dates
        - May have just right now at time of writing found one: https://github.com/you-apps/ConnectYou
- Google Calendar app
    - Unhappy about this too
    - I tried FOSSify Calendar but didn't stick, I don't remember why!